*Second Draft*

The nighttime streets of New York City have a certain sharp contrast between the brightly lit windows of skyscrapers and the unilluminated asphalt roads. However, between the windows and the concrete sidewalks, the line is much more blurred. As we walk towards the station entrance, the ground at my feet is periodically brightened by tall, black, dignified-looking streetlamps. At other times, the sidewalks are shrouded in darkness. Passing a small grove of saplings in a rectangular, fenced garden, I drink the last remnants of my lemonade, tasting the last tart sip on my tongue before dropping the container in a squat metal trash bin. A small wad of unidentifiable plastic drifts sideways by my feet, propelled by a light breeze. The distinctive odors of smoke and hotdogs wafts toward me from a nearby Sabrett street cart, masking the smell of burnt gasoline and rubbish. I shiver slightly as the cold air of the night hits my skin. We near the entrance - a small metal structure, reminiscent of a telephone booth. Inside, a long, narrow flight of stairs leads to the platform.

The station is a hive of activity, a miniature underground highway of people. The cacophony of dozens of simultaneous conversations evaluates into a sea of noise that my ears perceive as a faint racket. People hurry in and out of the turnstiles, which beep repeatedly in a semi-coherent, somehow soothing rhythm. Men wearing tuxedos stride towards the escalators on the far end of the long, narrow station holding black briefcases. A woman pushing a stroller shields her child from the constant, turbulent current of people flowing in and out of the metro.

Two powerful headlights appear from the end of the subway tunnel. I stare at the circles of light glowing brighter and brighter until it hurts my eyes. A sudden gust of wind sweeps the metro, followed by the familiar clang-clang of train wheels scraping against the tracks. Instinctively, everyone turns their head away from the rushing air. One, then two, then five, then ten train cars rush into the station, an eight-hundred ton hulk of metal grinding to a screeching halt. With a contemptuous whirr, the doors slide open to reveal a crowded, fluorescent-lit interior. Passengers spill out of the subway cars, heading for the stairways and escalators in what is best described as a well-organized chaotic mass migration.

We squeeze into the subway car. Inside, some people look down at their phones, scrolling through Instagram posts. Others stare anxiously at their watches, quickly losing hope of getting home before midnight. Still others are only trying not to be squished by the incoming tide of passengers. In this midst of this bumping and jostling, a firm voice announces, “Stand clear of the closing doors, please.” With a satisfying clunk, the metal doors latch closed. The subway rumbles and jolts forward with an electric whine, nearly knocking me off balance as I flail my arms around, trying to grasp the central metal pole. I manage to get ahold of an overhead railing. The train accelerates rapidly as I peer out of the window, putting a palm to the cold glass, as the bright lights of the station blur past into darkness and the subway rumbles into the depths of the tunnel.

*By Jieruei Chang*