*First draft*

The nighttime streets of New York City have a certain sharp contrast between the brightly lit windows of skyscrapers and the unilluminated asphalt roads. However, with the concrete sidewalks, the line is much more blurred. As we walk towards the station entrance, the ground at my feet is periodically brightened by tall, black streetlamps with a very dignified appearance. At other times, the sidewalks are shrouded in darkness. Passing a small grove of saplings in a rectangular, fenced garden, I drink the last remnants of my lemonade, tasting the last tart sip on my tongue. A small wad of unidentifiable plastic drifts sideways by my feet, propelled by a light breeze. The distinctive odors of smoke and hotdogs wafts toward me from a nearby Sabrett street cart. I shiver slightly as the cold air of the night hits my skin. We near the entrance - a small metal structure, reminiscent of a telephone booth. Inside, a long, narrow flight of stairs leads to the platform.

The station is a hive of activity. The cacophony of dozens of simultaneous conversations evaluates into a sea of noise that my ears perceive as a faint din. People hurry in and out of the turnstiles. Men wearing tuxedos stride towards the escalators on the far end of the long, narrow station holding black briefcases. A woman pushing a stroller shields her child from the constant, turbulent current of people flowing in and out of the underground.

Two powerful headlights appear from the end of the subway tunnel. I stare at the circles of light glowing brighter and brighter until it hurts my eyes. A sudden gust of wind sweeps the metro, followed by the familiar clang-clang of train wheels scraping against the tracks. Instinctively, everyone turns their head away from the rushing air. An eight-hundred ton hulk of metal grinds to a screeching halt. With a contemptuous whirr, the doors slide open to reveal a crowded, fluorescent-lit interior. People spill out of the doors and scramble to the exits and stairs to other platforms, a well-organized chaotic mass migration.

We squeeze into the subway car. Inside, some people look down at their phones, scrolling through Instagram posts. Others stare anxiously at their watches. Others are trying not to be squished by the incoming tide of passengers. The subway rumbles and jolts forward, nearly knocking me off balance. I peer out of the window, watching the bright lights of the station blur past as the subway speeds off into the darkness.
